# [ Backend ] - .Net

This template provides a multi-project solution for creating an enterprise-level application that includes the use of .NET Identity, Swagger, API Versioning, CORS, Localization, NLog, Fluent Validation, Fluent Email, IP Rate Limiting using the .NET 5 Framework and are guided by the Clean Architecture principles enabling rapid application development.

<br />

## Why use .NET
___
1. **Security** -  .NET provides a highly secure environment through the usage of various security mechanisms to keep an application protected. Through the provision of many useful classes and services, .NET enables developers to use cryptography, write more secure code, and implement role-based security. The security support provided by .NET allows for the flexibility and extensibility to meet the needs of a wide range of applications.

2. **Scalability** - .NET is noted as an excellent platform to be utilized when the scalability of an application is required. Its object interface allows for the creation of a blueprint by developers to reuse objects in different software. The ability for developers to change code without impacting other parts of an application such as user experience (UX), is critical aspect to application development. 

3. **Flexibility** - .NET offers great flexibility in its use. With its compatibility with many programming languages, such as C#, F#, Visual Basic, Cobra and Fantom amongst others, .NET offers a significant advantage in its use for engineers with a wide range of coding skills. The ability of .NET to develop applications across multiple operating systems and platforms enables a high level of flexibility in how applications are developed and used. .NET supports the development of serval types of applications such as: Desktop, Game Development, Microservices, Web, Mobile, Cloud, Internet of Things and Machine Learning. 


## When to use .NET
___
Often choosing one amongst all the programming languages is quite a difficult task. .NET offers significant advantages over some programming languages and some programming languages offer their own significant benefits over .NET. Some have recommended the utilization of in the context of creating enterprise applications. However here at RealDecoy, deciding when to use .NET comes down to preference of the clients and sometimes of the developers.

<br />

## Installation
___

***Guide to Installing .NET Framework:***

1. Read how to install .NET at [Install the .NET Framework developer pack or redistributable - .NET Framework](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/install/guide-for-developers)  

2. Watch video on installing .NET [Installing .NET 5 for Beginners](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=karSxhTb_38) 


> **_NOTE_** For additional information visit Install .NET on Windows - [.NET](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/install/windows?tabs=net60)


<br />

## Templates
___
***Guide to Installing .NET Template***
1. Read installation instructions at [GitHub - realdecoy/.Net6] (https://github.com/realdecoy/.Net6)