# Queries

### What is it about?
Querying with LINQ: Entity Framework Core supports querying data using LINQ (Language Integrated Query). LINQ provides a powerful and expressive way to write queries against the database

### Features
* LINQ Query Operators: LINQ offers various query operators such as `Where`, `OrderBy`, `Select`, `GroupBy`, and more. These operators allow you to filter, order, project, and manipulate data in your queries.

* Eager Loading: Entity Framework Core supports eager loading of related entities, allowing you to fetch related data in a single query using the `Include` method or `ThenInclude` method for multi-level relationships.

* Deferred Execution: LINQ queries in Entity Framework Core are lazily executed, meaning that the query is not executed immediately but when the data is actually accessed. This allows for query composition and optimization.

* Asynchronous Queries: Entity Framework Core provides asynchronous query methods (`ToListAsync`, `FirstOrDefaultAsync`, etc.) that allow for non-blocking database operations, improving scalability and responsiveness.


### Examples

**Filtering Query** - This query filters the products and retrieves only those belonging to the "Electronics" category
```
using (var context = new YourDbContext())
{
    var products = context.Products
        .Where(p => p.Category == "Electronics")
        .ToList();
}
```
<br>

**Ordering Query** - This query orders the products based on their price in ascending order.
```
using (var context = new YourDbContext())
{
    var products = context.Products
        .OrderBy(p => p.Price)
        .ToList();
}
```
<br>

**Projection Query** - This query projects only the product names from the database.
```
using (var context = new YourDbContext())
{
    var productNames = context.Products
        .Select(p => p.Name)
        .ToList();
}
```
<br>

**Eager Loading Query** - This query eagerly loads the associated Category entity along with the Product entity.
```
using (var context = new YourDbContext())
{
    var products = context.Products
        .Include(p => p.Category)
        .ToList();
}
```
<br>

**Asynchronous Query** - This query asynchronously retrieves all the products from the database.
```
using (var context = new YourDbContext())
{
    var products = await context.Products
        .ToListAsync();
}
```
<br>