# Endpoints

### Overview
* ASP.NET Core Endpoints: Endpoints in ASP.NET Core represent the individual URLs or routes that clients can request to interact with the API. Each endpoint is associated with a specific HTTP method (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, etc.) and performs a particular action.

* Routing: Routing in ASP.NET Core maps incoming requests to the appropriate endpoints based on the requested URL and HTTP method. You can define routing templates using attributes, conventions, or a combination of both to specify the endpoint routes.

* Controllers: Controllers in ASP.NET Core handle the incoming requests, process the logic, and generate the appropriate responses. Controllers contain one or more action methods that are responsible for executing specific operations related to the API endpoints.

* Action Methods: Action methods within controllers define the behavior for specific endpoints. They typically correspond to HTTP methods and perform actions such as retrieving data, creating resources, updating resources, or deleting resources.

* Model Binding: ASP.NET Core automatically binds the incoming request data to the action method parameters based on their names, types, and attributes. This allows you to access the request data, such as query parameters, route values, form data, or JSON payloads, within the action methods.

* Response Types: Action methods can return various types of responses, such as IActionResult, ActionResult<T<T>>, or specific result types like Ok, BadRequest, Created, etc. These response types help in generating consistent and meaningful responses for clients.


### Examples

**Creating an Endpoint** 
```bash
frontier dotnet add endpoint [name-of-endpoint]
```

The command above will generate two files located at ProjectName/src/ProjectNameApi.Api/Endpoints/NameOfEndpoint/. They are the starting point for how the endpoint should setup in the project.
<br>

NameOfEndpointcontroller.cs
```code
using Mediator;
using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc;

namespace ProjectName.Api.Endpoints.NameOfEndpoint
{
    [Produces("application/json")]
    [ApiController]
    public class NameOfEndpoint : ControllerBase
    {
        private readonly IMediator _mediator;

        public NameOfEndpoint(IMediator mediator)
        {
            _mediator = mediator;
        }

        /// <summary>
        ///  This is a simple GET request
        /// </summary>
        /// <param name="request"></param>
        /// <returns></returns>
        [HttpPost]
        [ApiVersion("1.0")]
        [Route("api/v{version:apiVersion}/NameOfEndpoint/sample")]
        [ProducesResponseType(StatusCodes.Status200OK)]
        public async Task<IActionResult> Sample(SampleRequest request)
        {
            Console.WriteLine($"Property1: {request.Property1}");
            Console.WriteLine($"Property2: {request.Property2}");

            var result = await _mediator.Send(command);

            return Ok(result);
        }
    }
}
```
<br>

SampleRequest.cs
```code
namespace MyCoolApi.Api.Endpoints.Order
{
    public class SampleRequest
    {
        public string Property1 { get; set; } = string.Empty;
        public string Property2 { get; set; } = string.Empty;
    }
}
```
<br>

