# Getting Started

[Mobile](https://github.com/realdecoy/frontier/tree/main/packages/frontier-plugins/plugin-mobile) is an opinionated CLI for generating React Native Expo projects. We do so by adopting a development style guide which enforces strong typing with TypeScript, standardized Component, Layout and Screen models,
and a data-layer design promoting unified consumption through React Contexts and Services.
Follow the [installation guide](#installation) below to set up the Stripe CLI.


## System Requirements

1. You will need [React Native Expo CLI](https://docs.expo.dev/get-started/installation/#expo-cli) and it dependencies in order to run the project.
2. Git
3. For macOS or Linux users: Watchman
4. MacOs to run on iOS simular.

Recommended tools

1. Visual Studio Code Editor [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/download).

---


## Installation
Installing the mobile plugin can be done with the following command:
```bash
frontier plugins:install @rdfrontier/plugin-mobile
```

### Validate installation

To check if the everything went will you can check the current version of mobile:

```bash
frontier mobile -v | --version
```

---

## Usage
Now we can start using the CLI if the installation was successful.
### Step 1: Create a project 

```bash
frontier mobile create-project <project-name>
```
Replace <project-name> with the actual name of your project. Preferrably written in snake case (eg. `my-awesome-project`).

**Example**
```bash
frontier mobile create-project my-awesome-project
```


### Step 2: Run project

```shell
cd my-awesome-project
```
If you have a Mac.
```bash
npm run ios 
```
If you have a Mac or Windows.
```bash
npm run android
```

---


## Next Steps

From here you can perform multiple other actions but a good next step is to [learn to add features](usage.md#add). See examples below:

### Generating a Screen

```bash
frontier mobile:add:screen <screen-name>
```

Each generated Screen gets its own dedicated folder. The folder will be given the name of the page. This folder is located at `/src/screens/<screen-name>`.

### Generating a Component

```bash
frontier mobile:add:component <component-name>
```